README.md, before:

# Karlsen Stratum Adapter

This is a lightweight daemon that allows mining to a local (or remote)
karlsen node using stratum-base miners.

This daemon is confirmed working with the miners below in both dual-mining
and karlsen-only modes (for those that support it) and Windows, Linux,
macOS and HiveOS.

* bzminer
* lolminer
* srbminer
* teamreadminer

No fee, forever.

Discord discussions/issues: [here](https://discord.gg/pPNESjGfb5)

Huge shoutout to https://github.com/KaffinPX/KStratum and
https://github.com/onemorebsmith/karlsen-stratum-bridge for the
inspiration.

Tips appreciated: `karlsen:qqe3p64wpjf5y27kxppxrgks298ge6lhu6ws7ndx4tswzj7c84qkjlrspcuxw`

## Hive Setup
[detailed instructions here](hive-setup.md)

# Features

Shares-based work allocation with miner-like periodic stat output:

```
===============================================================================
  worker name   |  avg hashrate  |   acc/stl/inv  |    blocks    |    uptime
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 lemois         |       0.13GH/s |          3/0/0 |            0 |       6m48s
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                |       0.13GH/s |          3/0/0 |            0 |       7m20s
========================================================= kls_bridge_v1.0.0 ===
```

Optional monitoring UI:

[monitoring-setup.md](monitoring-setup.md)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59971111/192025446-f20d74a5-f9e0-4290-b98b-9f56af8f23b4.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59971111/191980688-2d0faf6b-d551-4880-a316-de2303cfeb7d.png)

## Prometheus API

If the app is run with the `-prom={port}` flag the application will host
stats on the port specified by `{port}`, these stats are documented in
the file [prom.go](src/karlsenstratum/prom.go). This is intended to be use
by prometheus but the stats can be fetched and used independently if
desired. `curl http://localhost:2114/metrics | grep kls_` will get a
listing of current stats. All published stats have a `kls_` prefix for
ease of use.

```
user:~$ curl http://localhost:2114/metrics | grep kls_
# HELP kls_estimated_network_hashrate_gauge Gauge representing the estimated network hashrate
# TYPE kls_estimated_network_hashrate_gauge gauge
kls_estimated_network_hashrate_gauge 2.43428982879776e+14
# HELP kls_network_block_count Gauge representing the network block count
# TYPE kls_network_block_count gauge
kls_network_block_count 271966
# HELP kls_network_difficulty_gauge Gauge representing the network difficulty
# TYPE kls_network_difficulty_gauge gauge
kls_network_difficulty_gauge 1.2526479386202519e+14
# HELP kls_valid_share_counter Number of shares found by worker over time
# TYPE kls_valid_share_counter counter
kls_valid_share_counter{ip="192.168.0.17",miner="SRBMiner-MULTI/1.0.8",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="002"} 276
kls_valid_share_counter{ip="192.168.0.24",miner="BzMiner-v11.1.0",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="003"} 43
kls_valid_share_counter{ip="192.168.0.65",miner="BzMiner-v11.1.0",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="001"} 307
# HELP kls_worker_job_counter Number of jobs sent to the miner by worker over time
# TYPE kls_worker_job_counter counter
kls_worker_job_counter{ip="192.168.0.17",miner="SRBMiner-MULTI/1.0.8",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="002"} 3471
kls_worker_job_counter{ip="192.168.0.24",miner="BzMiner-v11.1.0",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="003"} 3399
kls_worker_job_counter{ip="192.168.0.65",miner="BzMiner-v11.1.0",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="001"} 3425
```

# Install

## Docker (all-in-one)

Note: This does requires that docker is installed.

`docker compose -f docker-compose-all.yml up -d` will run the bridge with
default settings. This assumes a local karlsend node with default port
settings and exposes port 5555 to incoming stratum connections.

This also spins up a local prometheus and grafana instance that gather
stats and host the metrics dashboard. Once the services are up and
running you can view the dashboard using `http://127.0.0.1:3000/d/x7cE7G74k/monitoring`

Default grafana user: `admin`
Default grafana pass: `admin`

Most of the stats on the graph are averaged over an hour time period, so
keep in mind that the metrics might be inaccurate for the first hour or
so that the bridge is up.

## Docker (non-compose)

Note: This does not require pulling down the repo, it only requires that
docker is installed.

`docker run -p 5555:5555 karlsennetwork/karlsen_bridge:latest --log=false`

This will run the bridge with default settings. This assumes a local
karlsend node with default port settings and exposes port 5555 to incoming
stratum connections.

Advanced and customized configuration.

`docker run -p {stratum_port}:5555 karlsennetwork/karlsen_bridge --log=false --karlsen={karlsend_address} --stats={false}`

This will run the bridge targeting a karlsend node at {karlsend_address}.
Stratum port accepting connections on {stratum_port}, and only logging
connection activity, found blocks, and errors.

## Non-Docker (manual build)

Install go 1.18 using whatever package manager is appropriate for your
system.

```
cd cmd/karlsenbridge
go build .
```

Modify the config file in `./cmd/karlsenbridge/config.yaml` with your setup,
the file comments explain the various flags.

```
./karlsenbridge
```

To recap the entire process of initiating the compilation and launching
the karlsen dridge, follow these steps:

```
cd cmd/karlsenbridge
go build .
./karlsenbridge
```

Commit message:

Some nice Grafana KLSB monitoring images

README.md, after:

# Karlsen Stratum Adapter

This is a lightweight daemon that allows mining to a local (or remote)
karlsen node using stratum-base miners.

This daemon is confirmed working with the miners below in both dual-mining
and karlsen-only modes (for those that support it) and Windows, Linux,
macOS and HiveOS.

* bzminer
* lolminer
* srbminer
* teamreadminer

No fee, forever.

Discord discussions/issues: [here](https://discord.gg/pPNESjGfb5)

Huge shoutout to https://github.com/KaffinPX/KStratum and
https://github.com/onemorebsmith/karlsen-stratum-bridge for the
inspiration.

Tips appreciated: `karlsen:qqe3p64wpjf5y27kxppxrgks298ge6lhu6ws7ndx4tswzj7c84qkjlrspcuxw`

## Hive Setup

[detailed instructions here](hive-setup.md)

# Features

Shares-based work allocation with miner-like periodic stat output:

```
===============================================================================
  worker name   |  avg hashrate  |   acc/stl/inv  |    blocks    |    uptime
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 lemois         |       0.13GH/s |          3/0/0 |            0 |       6m48s
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                |       0.13GH/s |          3/0/0 |            0 |       7m20s
========================================================= kls_bridge_v1.0.0 ===
```

## Grafana UI

The grafana monitoring UI is an optional component but included for
convenience. It will help to visualize collected statistics.

[detailed instructions here](monitoring-setup.md)

![Grafana Monitoring 1](images/grafana-1.png)

![Grafana Monitoring 2](images/grafana-2.png)

![Grafana KLSB Monitoring 1](images/grafana-3.png)

![Grafana KLSB Monitoring 2](images/grafana-4.png)

## Prometheus API

If the app is run with the `-prom={port}` flag the application will host
stats on the port specified by `{port}`, these stats are documented in
the file [prom.go](src/karlsenstratum/prom.go). This is intended to be use
by prometheus but the stats can be fetched and used independently if
desired. `curl http://localhost:2114/metrics | grep kls_` will get a
listing of current stats. All published stats have a `kls_` prefix for
ease of use.

```
user:~$ curl http://localhost:2114/metrics | grep kls_
# HELP kls_estimated_network_hashrate_gauge Gauge representing the estimated network hashrate
# TYPE kls_estimated_network_hashrate_gauge gauge
kls_estimated_network_hashrate_gauge 2.43428982879776e+14
# HELP kls_network_block_count Gauge representing the network block count
# TYPE kls_network_block_count gauge
kls_network_block_count 271966
# HELP kls_network_difficulty_gauge Gauge representing the network difficulty
# TYPE kls_network_difficulty_gauge gauge
kls_network_difficulty_gauge 1.2526479386202519e+14
# HELP kls_valid_share_counter Number of shares found by worker over time
# TYPE kls_valid_share_counter counter
kls_valid_share_counter{ip="192.168.0.17",miner="SRBMiner-MULTI/1.0.8",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="002"} 276
kls_valid_share_counter{ip="192.168.0.24",miner="BzMiner-v11.1.0",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="003"} 43
kls_valid_share_counter{ip="192.168.0.65",miner="BzMiner-v11.1.0",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="001"} 307
# HELP kls_worker_job_counter Number of jobs sent to the miner by worker over time
# TYPE kls_worker_job_counter counter
kls_worker_job_counter{ip="192.168.0.17",miner="SRBMiner-MULTI/1.0.8",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="002"} 3471
kls_worker_job_counter{ip="192.168.0.24",miner="BzMiner-v11.1.0",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="003"} 3399
kls_worker_job_counter{ip="192.168.0.65",miner="BzMiner-v11.1.0",wallet="karlsen:qzk3uh2twkhu0fmuq50mdy3r2yzuwqvstq745hxs7tet25hfd4egcafcdmpdl",worker="001"} 3425
```

# Install

## Docker (all-in-one)

Note: This does requires that docker is installed.

`docker compose -f docker-compose-all.yml up -d` will run the bridge with
default settings. This assumes a local karlsend node with default port
settings and exposes port 5555 to incoming stratum connections.

This also spins up a local prometheus and grafana instance that gather
stats and host the metrics dashboard. Once the services are up and
running you can view the dashboard using `http://127.0.0.1:3000/d/x7cE7G74k/monitoring`

Default grafana user: `admin`
Default grafana pass: `admin`

Most of the stats on the graph are averaged over an hour time period, so
keep in mind that the metrics might be inaccurate for the first hour or
so that the bridge is up.

## Docker (non-compose)

Note: This does not require pulling down the repo, it only requires that
docker is installed.

`docker run -p 5555:5555 karlsennetwork/karlsen_bridge:latest --log=false`

This will run the bridge with default settings. This assumes a local
karlsend node with default port settings and exposes port 5555 to incoming
stratum connections.

Advanced and customized configuration.

`docker run -p {stratum_port}:5555 karlsennetwork/karlsen_bridge --log=false --karlsen={karlsend_address} --stats={false}`

This will run the bridge targeting a karlsend node at {karlsend_address}.
Stratum port accepting connections on {stratum_port}, and only logging
connection activity, found blocks, and errors.

## Non-Docker (manual build)

Install go 1.18 using whatever package manager is appropriate for your
system.

```
cd cmd/karlsenbridge
go build .
```

Modify the config file in `./cmd/karlsenbridge/config.yaml` with your setup,
the file comments explain the various flags.

```
./karlsenbridge
```

To recap the entire process of initiating the compilation and launching
the karlsen dridge, follow these steps:

```
cd cmd/karlsenbridge
go build .
./karlsenbridge
```
